Exercise 1
1.	Go to Voyant Tools- this is a open source, tool that analyzes text 
2.	Chose the section of text I wanted to upload to focus on form the War Diaries 
3.	When the text uploaded it looked very strange and most of the words were not even English 
4.	Played around with the text but nothing seemed to work to make the words normal – when I checked the Zulip chat, I noticed that other classmates transcribed the document and shared them with the class 
5.	I downloaded the zip file from my classmate and un zipped it on my computer 
6.	The documents in this file were cleaned, and I knew when I re impute this file in to Voyant, it would look normal and be more manageable 
7.	In Voyant I clicked on the document button on the Wordcloud and was able to choice specific words, which would form a graph on the right side of the page.
I selected various word combinations looking at patterns and correlations in the text such as “arrived”, “p.m”, “Halifax”, “a.m”
8.	The graph on the right hand side was very helpful in allowing me to see patterns within the text
9.	Looking at the Wordcloud I noticed that Halifax was a big portion of the word cloud, meaning that it was used more often. I choose to focus in on this for my next exercise
From this exercise we can see different patters thought the text based on the different words choices and different tools for analyzing we pick


Exercise 2 
1.	From the exercise that was just completed I choose to take the word “Halifax” and explore it further 
2.	Using a map that I obtained from “Nova Scotia archives” I uploaded it to Map Warper 
3.	Choice the map I chose a fire insurance map, similar to the module 4  
4.	It was very tricky to impute metadata into this map because their was little to no information on the site where I got the map
5.	Clicking “rectify” I then scrolled in on the right side and pin pointed the exact place on the map. 
6.	While zooming in on the map, I dropped location points mirroring it on both sides of the map. I then noticed that I has got a map from Nova Scotia, but it was not of Halifax
7.	I then had to go back to the site and with more attention read threw the lists making sure that I had selected a map from Halifax (my focus)
8.	I continued with the previous steps, and when finished clicked on wrap image at the bottom of the page 
I exported the file and copied the url http://mapwarper.net/maps/tile/31584/{z}/{x}/{y}.png
9.	I will then take this url and post it into Palladio which will layer my map 


Exercise 3
Using Palladio
1.	Using Palladio I loaded my csv file into the site, and typed in any random words to create two lines of texts in space provided, 
at first I pasted my tile link into this bubble and it came up with a error
2.	I clicked on the map tab which brought up options and I clicked on new layer on the side
3.	In the tile tab on the side I used custom option which I pasted into Palladio, in the custom tile section 
4.	I clicked on add layer, and choice the satellite option form the selection, this made the map an in color detailed view of the world. 
It was challenging to find the part in question on the map
I now have a georectifed map of Halifax, this basically associates something with location, and I am associating the map found with the location of Halifax!!

Exercise 4

I needed a place to display all my above work; I decided to use Omeka, which is a blogging platform which I can make posts to and organize my work effectively.

1.	I opened reclaim host and clicked Cpanel (top of page), I already has installed reclaiming host and had a account
2.	When you click into the Cpannel tab it will bring you to a list of your domains, 
and click on subdomains which will allow you to name your subdomain you are creating.
3.	Back in the Cpanel Omeka should have a little icon which you can click on and hit install 
4.	Upon Installing this I forgot to click on the save at the side and could not understand why it wasn’t starting to install, 
5.	After re doing this step several times I was able to actually install it 
6.	My subdomain started to install, I was able to click onto the omeka tab and log into the account I just created. 
Then I was able to give it a name and configure the theme to fit my liking 
7.	When trying to enter in my data, I had some trouble navigating the site, I had a lot of failed attempts, 
which I would just upload blank documents to actually see how the lay out and how everything uploaded to the page 

i have now created a subdomain from my reclaiming host, omeka and am able to upload my texts and visual images created in the other exersises above 
